# Prepare for interview
### Problem 1: The way from user request to web server
#### Story:

- User enter URL to browser and keydown the enter, the request will go thought the HOSTS file, a filter mapping URI inside URL with Ip address.
- Then if HOSTS file can't filter, the request will go to the DNS server to relsove the mapping Ip address, then go to web server ip with correctponding port.
- Open connection from user computer with Web server (step 1 of TCP protocol)
- Transfer data using the protocol HTTP, just a script template.

#### How an http server work?
- An application run on milti thread environment, open a port and read and execute the http request.
- The server is a chain of middle ware components.
- Beside of above, the server could be have more feature like load balance, sercurity, web acceleration...
### How html, css, javascript loading?
- Loading data
- DOM - parse html, and create a tree, it will stop to download any link from external resource, then continues, cause of it assumes whatever is linked to is required in other render the page properly
- CSSOM - build css, and apply to DOM tree
- Render tree
- Layout - Arrange the positon of block, if js changed the postion, this process is reload
- Paint - paint pixel to screen, so if we want hide or display, we should use the opacity.
### Render tree
- The render tree is sort of like the DOM tree, but doesn't match it exactly, The render tree knows about styles so if you’re hiding a div with display: none, it won't be represented in the render tree.
### Js loading

- When the browser processes an HTML document, it does so from top to bottom, when see a `<script>` tag, it halts, block to download the reference script file.
```
|
| |-foo.js-|
|          |-bar.js-|
|                   |-baz.js-|
|
+------------------------------> 
```
a network recording.
we could parallelize  this process
```
|
| |-foo.js-|
| |-bar.js-|
| |-baz.js-|
|
+------------------------------> 
```
and browser support by two attribute to `script` tag
- async tag
```
<script async src="script.js">
```
this `async` attribute is used to indicate to the browser that the script can be execute asynchronosly. The Html parse does not need to pause at the point it reaches the script tag to fetch and excute. after dowloaded, the HTML parse will pause till the script executed.
- defer tag
```
<script defer scr="script.js">
```
like the `async` but, after html have already parsed. the script will be executed.
- `Async` and `Defer` is important if your script is not at bottom of Html.

- If script is self-container mean is not dependence on anythings. the `async` is good.
- Otherwise, `defer` is good.